Urinary stress incontinence is a common condition
that affects up to 60% of all women.
It occurs when the bladder leaks during normal,
everyday physical activity,
such as coughing, sneezing,
laughing, or lifting heavy objects.
Stress incontinence is caused by weak
pelvic floor muscles that can support the bladder
and keep the urethra closed to prevent leaking.
During tension-free vaginal tape surgery
a ribbon of synthetic mesh tape
is positioned under the urethra
like a sling to maintain its normal position
and stop leaks during everyday activities.
Potential risks of the surgery include,
changes in the vagina,
damage to the urethra, bladder, or vagina,
erosion of the surgical tape,
irritable bladder,
difficulty urinating,
and increased urine leakage.